.\" copyright (c) 2005 - 2015, Amnon Barak, all rights reserved.
.\" MOSIX(TM) is a registered trademark of Amnon Barak and Amnon Shiloh.
.\"
.\" THIS MANUAL IS PROVIDED IN ITS "AS IS" CONDITION, WITH NO WARRANTY
.\" WHATSOEVER. NO LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM THE USE OF THIS MANUAL WILL BE ACCEPTED.
.\"
.Dd "January 2014"
.ds section M1
.ds operating-system MOSIX
.ds volume MOSIX Commands
.ds date-string January 2014
.ds document-title MOSBESTNODE
.ds vT MOSIX Reference Manual
.Os MOSIX
.Sh NAME
.Pa MOSBESTNODE
- Select best node to run on
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm \&mosbestnode
.Pa [ -u ] [ -n ] [ -w ] [ -m{mb} ]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pa Mosbestnode
selects the best node to run a new MOSIX process on.
.Pp
.Pa Mosbestnode
normally prints the selected node's IP address.  If the
.Pa -u
argument is used and the node has an associated MOSIX node number,
.Pa mosbestnode
prints its MOSIX node number instead.
.Pp
The selection is normally for the immediate sending of a job
to the selected node by means other than
.Pa mosrun(1)
(such as "rsh", "ssh", or MPI).  MOSIX is updated to assume that
a new process will soon start on the selected node: when calling
.Pa mosbestnode
for any other purpose (such as information gathering), use the
.Pa -n
argument, to prevent misleading MOSIX as if a new process is about
to be started.
.Pp
The
.Pa -m{mb}
argument narrows the selection to nodes that have at least
.Pa mb
Megabytes of free memory.
.Pp
When the
.Pa -w
argument is used,
.Pa mosbestnode
waits until an appropriate node is found:
otherwise, if no appropriate node is found,
.Pa mosbestnode
prints "0" and exits.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mosrun 1 ,
.Xr mosix 7 .
