.\" copyright (c) 2005 - 2015, Amnon Barak, all rights reserved.
.\" MOSIX(TM) is a registered trademark of Amnon Barak and Amnon Shiloh.
.\"
.\" THIS MANUAL IS PROVIDED IN ITS "AS IS" CONDITION, WITH NO WARRANTY
.\" WHATSOEVER. NO LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM THE USE OF THIS MANUAL WILL BE ACCEPTED.
.\"
.Dd "January 2014"
.ds section M1
.ds operating-system MOSIX
.ds volume MOSIX Commands
.ds date-string January 2014
.ds document-title MOSKILLALL
.ds vT MOSIX Reference Manual
.Os MOSIX
.Sh NAME
.Pa MOSKILLALL
- Kill or signal all your MOSIX processes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm \&moskillall
.Pa [ -{signum} | -{symbolic_signal} ]
.sp
Symbolic signals:
.Pp
.Pa HUP INT QUIT ILL TRAP ABRT BUS FPE KILL USR1 SEGV USR2
.Pa PIPE ALRM TERM STKFLT CHLD CONT STOP TSTP TTIN TTOU URG
.Pa XCPU XFSZ VTALRM PROF WINCH POLL PWR SYS
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pa Moskillall
kills or sends a signal to all the user's MOSIX processes, or if called
by the Super-User, to all MOSIX processes of all users.
.Pp
The default signal is SIGTERM, unless a numeric
.Pa -{signum}
or symbolic
.Pa -{symbolic_signal}
argument specifies a different signal.
However, as MOSIX processes should not receive the SIGSTOP signal,
SIGSTOP signals are converted to SIGTSTP.
.Pp
Note that
.Pa moskillall
cannot provide an absolute guarantee that all processes will receive
the signal, as a rare race condition is possible where one or
more processes are forking at the exact time of running it.
.Pp
.Sh DEFINITION OF MOSIX PROCESSES
MOSIX processes are processes that were started by the
.Pa mosrun(1)
utility on the current node, excluding those processes that invoked the
.Pa mosnative
utility.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mosps 1 ,
.Xr mosrun 1 ,
.Xr mosix 7 .
