.\" copyright (c) 2005 - 2015, Amnon Barak, all rights reserved.
.\" MOSIX(TM) is a registered trademark of Amnon Barak and Amnon Shiloh.
.\"
.\" THIS MANUAL IS PROVIDED IN ITS "AS IS" CONDITION, WITH NO WARRANTY
.\" WHATSOEVER. NO LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM THE USE OF THIS MANUAL WILL BE ACCEPTED.
.\"
.Dd "May 2006"
.ds section M1
.ds operating-system MOSIX
.ds document-title MOSMON
.ds volume MOSIX Commands
.ds date-string January 2014
.ds vT MOSIX Reference Manual
.Os MOSIX
.Sh NAME
.Nm \&mosmon
.Nd MOSIX monitor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm \&mosmon
.Op Fl v | V | w
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl s | m | m m | f | c | l
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm \&Mosmon
displays useful current information about MOSIX nodes.
The information is represented as a bar-chart, which allows a
comparison between different nodes.
.Pp
The display shows nodes that are assigned node numbers in
.Pa /etc/mosix/userview.map
(see
.Pa mosix(7) ) .
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width abcde
.It Fl w
Select horizontal numbering: better display - but less nodes are visible.
.It Fl v
Select vertical numbering: more nodes are visible - but denser display.
.It Fl V
Select tight vertical numbering: maximal number of nodes are visible - but
even denser display.
.It Fl t
Display the number of operational nodes and number of CPUs.
.It Fl d
Display also dead (not responding) nodes.
.It Fl s
Display the CPU-speeds.
.It Fl m
Display the used vs. total memory.
.It Fl m m
Display the used vs. total swap space.
.It Fl f
Display the number of frozen processes.
.It Fl c
Display the number of cores.
.It Fl l
Display the load (default).
.El
.Pp
While in
.Pa mosmon ,
the following keys may be used:
.Bl -tag -width enter
.It Pa v
Select vertical numbering.
.It Pa V
Select tight vertical numbering.
.It Pa w
Select horizontal numbering.
.It Pa a
Select automatic numbering (vertical numbering will be selected if it would
make the difference between viewing all nodes or not - otherwise, horizontal
numbering is selected).
.It Pa s
Display CPU-speeds and number of nodes (if more than 1).
.br
10000 units represent a standard 3GHz processor.
.It Pa m
Display used memory vs. total memory: the used memory is displayed as a
solid bar while the total memory is extended with '+' signs.  The memory is
shown in Megabytes.
.It Pa m m
(pressing
.Pa m
twice) Display used swap-space vs. total swap-space: the used swap-space is displayed
as a solid bar while the total swap-space is extended with '+' signs.
Swap-space is shown in Gigabytes and is accurate to 0.1GB.
.It Pa f
Display the number of frozen processes.
.It Pa l
Display loads.  The load represents one CPU-bound process 
that runs on a node with a single CPU under normal conditions.
The load increases proportionally on slower CPUs, and decreases
proportionally on faster CPUs and on nodes with more than one CPU.
.It Pa d
Display also dead (not-responding) nodes.
.It Pa D
Stop displaying dead nodes.
.It Pa t
Toggle displaying the count of operational nodes.
.It Pa Right-Arrow
Move one node to the right (when not all nodes fit on the screen).
.It Pa Left-Arrow
Move one node to the left (when not all nodes fit on the screen).
.It Pa n
Move one screen to the right (when not all nodes fit on one screen).
.It Pa p
Move one screen to the left (when not all nodes fit on one screen).
.It Pa h
Bring up a help screen.
.It Pa Enter
Redraw the screen.
.It Pa q
Quit
.Nm \&Mosmon.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mosix 7 .
