.\" copyright (c) 2005 - 2015, Amnon Barak, all rights reserved.
.\" MOSIX(TM) is a registered trademark of Amnon Barak and Amnon Shiloh.
.\"
.\" THIS MANUAL IS PROVIDED IN ITS "AS IS" CONDITION, WITH NO WARRANTY
.\" WHATSOEVER. NO LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM THE USE OF THIS MANUAL WILL BE ACCEPTED.
.\"
.Dd "January 2014"
.ds section M1
.ds operating-system MOSIX
.ds document-title MOSMIGRATE
.ds volume MOSIX Commands
.ds date-string January 2014
.ds vT MOSIX Reference Manual
.Os MOSIX
.Sh NAME
.Pa MOSMIGRATE
- Manual control of running MOSIX processes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} {node-number|IP-address|host}
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} home
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} out
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} freeze
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} continue
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} checkpoint
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} chkstop
.Nm \&mosmigrate {pid} chkexit
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pa Mosmigrate {pid}
manually migrates or otherwise instructs a given MOSIX process
.Pa  ( pid )
to perform an action.
Note that
.Pa mosmigrate
does not wait to ensure that the process in question indeed performed
the requested action.
.Pp
The first option,
.Pa {node-number|IP-address|host} ,
specifies a target node to which the process should migrate.
.Pp
The
.Pa home
option forces the process to migrate back to its home-node.
.Pp
The
.Pa out
option forces a guest process to move out of this node (this option is
available only to the Super-User).
.Pp
The
.Pa freeze
option freezes the process (guest processes may not be frozen).
.Pp
The
.Pa continue
option unfreezes the process.
.Pp
The
.Pa checkpoint
option requests the process to take a checkpoint.
.Pp
The
.Pa chkstop
option requests the process to take a checkpoint and stop
(the process may then be resumed with SIGCONT).
.Pp
The
.Pa chkexit
option requests the process to take a checkpoint and exit.
.Pp
Except for the Super-User, one can normally migrate or affect
only their own processes.  The rule is: if you can kill it,
then you are also allowed to migrate/affect it.
.Pp
The best way to locate and find the
.Pa PID
of a MOSIX processes is by using
.Pa mosps(1) .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mosrun 1 ,
.Xr mosps 1 ,
.Xr mosix 7 .
